PRECISE_SENTENCE_(define 2nd == true）

 营业执照出具后30天内付款
1）payment shall be made via transfer of immediately available funds on or before the day that is
the 30th of the day on which the buz lincense is issued

2)payment shall be made within 30days,after the issuance of the buz license.

3)payment shall be made within (or of )30 days of the issuance of the buz license



regardless of Client's preparation of information,packaging and labeling of products in accordance
with this information does not constitute Client's assumption of product responsibility.Further,
no warranty,expressed or implied,arises from technical information that either the distributor
or any successor of the distributor as defined by the Agreement places on the lables.

although the information is prepared by Client,Client does not assume responsibility for products
that are packaged and labeled in accordance with this information.Futher,Client will not be deemed
to have made any warranty,expressed or implied,about technical information which has been placed
on the labels by the distributor or by any successor of the distributor as defined by the 
agreement.

NOTES;在文件中，确定对方的角色，然后想办法把主语写成这句话强调的对象
     if not sure，company,owner,tax payer

eg:laws provides that foregin investors...
   under law,foregin investors...


the process of equity offers a significant chance for recovery, But we must admit that there are
added risks given that the court is likely to be sympathetic to the opposing side's situation.

although the court is likely to be sympathetic to the defendant's situation,there is a significant
chance for recovery by using the process of equity.

NOTES:
  usu英文 将注意力放在句尾提供的信息
  在突出重点的时候可以调整语序，或者使用 but



甲方和乙方本着平等互利的原则，通过友好协商，同意在中华人民共和国“中国”上海共
同成立一家合资经营公司

1)in conformity with the principles of equality and mutual benefit, after
 friendly consultations, agree to jointly establish an equity joint venture
 (the JV company) company in shanghai.

2)adhering to the principles of equality and mutual benefit and through
friendly consultations… 


除...外
1)unless otherwise agreed by the parties
2)except as otherwise agreed by the parties


本合同签署后，任何一方事先未经另一方书面同意，不得公开披露本合同标的，但法律
法规要求公开的除外

after the execution of this Contract, unless otherwise required by laws and
 regulations, no public disclosure of the subject matter hereof may be made by either party written consent of the other party.


合营公司的一切活动应遵守中国的法律法规的规定

1)all activities of the Joint Venture Company shall comply with the 
provisions of Chinese laws and regulations.

2)The Joint Venture Company shall comply with the provisions of Chinese Laws
 and regulations in all its activeties.


法定地址为
the legal address of the JV Company is 1705 Dong Yi Road, Shanghai, China


相当于八百万美元的人民币现金
1)the renminbi equivalent of eight million(8,000,000)US Dollars in cash
2)the amount in renminbi equivalent of eight million(8,000,000) US Dollars
in cash
(BUT第一种翻译更为简洁)


董事的任期为四年
1)the term of office for each director shall be four years
2)the director shall be appointed for a term of four years


经合营各方继续委派可以连任
1)such term may be renewed when a director is re-appointed by the original
appointing party to the joint venture

2)a director may renew his term when re-appointed by the original appointing
 party to the joint venture

NOTES:此处的合营各方不能直接翻译为字面的意思 each party/the parties to the
 joint venture这样似是而非的翻译会引起歧义


董事会会议应当有2/3以上董事出席方能举行
1)the board meeting shall be held only when over two-thirds of the directors are present.
2)the board meeting shall require the presence/attendance of over two-thirds of the directors.


出席董事会会议的法定人数为全体董事的2/3
1)the quorum for the board meeting shall be two-thirds of the total number of directors
2)the board meeting shall require a quorum of two-third of the total number of directors.


如果会议的中文记录与英文记录不一致，则应以中文记录为准
不一致可以用做表语的形容词 inconsistent,也可以是名词的 discrepancy

1)if the minutes of the meeting in chinese and those in english are inconsistent ,the minutes kept
 in chinese shall prevail.

2)in case of any discrepancy between the chinese version and english version ,the minutes of the
 meeting prepared in chinese shall prevail.         


在董事会授权范围内
1)within the authority given by the board of directors
2)to the extent authorized by


经董事会聘请、董事长、副董事长、董事可以兼任。。。
1)when engaged by the board of directors ,the chairman ,vice-chairman or other directors may
 concurrently be...

2)at the invitation of the board of directors ,the chairman ,vice-chairman or other directors
 may concurrently be...


总经理执行董事会会议的各项决定，组织领导合营企业的日常经营管理工作。
在董事会授权范围内，总经理对外代表合营企业，对内任免下属人员，行使董事会授予的其他职权。

the general manager shall carry out the carry decisions of the board meeting, and organize and
lead the daily management work of the joint venture. the general manager shall within the 
authority given by the board of directors, represent the JV ,and exercise other powers granted
 by the board of directors.


 每年编制一次，每半年申领一次
shall work out a plan per annum and apply for such licenses every six month


凡国家规定需要领取进口许可证的，应当另行申领
shall make a separate application for import licenses required under state regulations



土地使用费每年分两次支付，第一期付款与每年6月30日到期，第二期付款于每年12月31日到期
1)the land use fee shall be paid in two installments. the payment of the first installment shall
 be due on June30 each year，and the payment of the second installment shall be due on December
 31 each year.

2)the land use fee shall be paid in two (2)semi-annual installments. with the first nstallment
shall be due on June30 each year，and the payment of the second installment shall be due on
December 31 each year.这种翻译更为简洁。


每平方米20元的土地使用权出让金（土地出让金），共计三十万三千（303，000）元,以获得该土地为期50年的
使用权（土地使用权）

pay party B a land use rights grant fee(the “land Grant Fee”)of RMB20 per square meter for a total
of three hundred and three thousand RMB(RMB303,000)to obtain the land use right to the land for
a term of fifty(50)years(the” land use term”).


享受与国内其他企业同等的待遇
1)enjoy the treatment as other domestic enterprise 
2)enjoy equal treatment (which is) accorded to other domestic enterprise (by the government)


在同等条件下，享受与中国企业同等的待遇
enjoy equal treatment accorded to chinese enterprises under the same conditions


凡属于重大固定资产投资项目
1)all major investment projects of fixed assets/ all major fixed assets investment projects
只是字面翻译
2)all major investment projects involving fixed assets


甲方将协助合营公司办理申请并获得进口必要数量的机械设备、原料和物质（如有）的许可合同条款中常见的附
加语

party A will assist the JVC in applying for and procuring licenses for the importation of
necessary quantities of machinery, equipment, raw materials and supplies(if any).


（其他物料系指合营企业建厂（场）以及安装、加固机器所需要的材料，下同）
作为附注语言，表示下文所指与此处相同
（“other goods”shall, herein and hereinafter, mean materials needed by a JV to build its factory
 or site and to install and consolidate the machinery ）


经有关部门批准
with the approval of the relevant authorities


以投资总额以内的资金
1)with funds within the total investment
2)with funds out of the total investment


帷幕拉开了，神秘感正在消失
the curtain has parted; the mystery is being dispelled
此处不能用is disappearing，
cuz:
这个词没有进行时态因为是表示瞬间完成的动作
如果用进行时表达的意思仿佛是神秘感自行消失的


合营企业采用日历年制，自公历每年1月1日起至12月31日止为一个会计年度

1)the JV shall adopt the calendar years as its accounting year, and each accounting year shall
 be from January 1 to December 31 on the Gregorian calendar. 

2)the accounting year of the JV shall coincide with the calendar years as, i.e, from January 1
 to December 31 on the Gregorian calendar. 


 以前年度未分配的利润，可以并入本年度利润分配
1)may be incorporated into the profit of the current year and be distrbuted
2)undistributed profit from the previous year may be distributed together with the profit of the
 current year意译为以前年度未分配的利润，可以与本年度一起分配


前款第(2),(4),(5) ，(6)项情况发生的，由董事会提出解散申请，报。。。
in the cases of (2),(4),(5) and (6) of the preceding paragraphs, the board of directors shall
 make an application for dissolution and submit it to the ...



经过协商或者调解无效的，提请仲裁或者司法解决

这个句子的翻译两种方法都可以
1)添加主语
if the parties cannot resolve the dispute through consultation or mediation the dispute shall be
 submitted to arbitration or to a law court for settlement

2)把协商或者调解作为主语
if such consultation or mediation comes to no avail, the parties shall submit the dispute to
 arbitration or to a law court for settlement

no avail =with no success
司法解决=把争议提交给法院裁决


为合营公司业务出国
1)travel abroad for the JVC business
2)travel abroad in connection with the JVC business(与。。相关)

my journey to NY is in connection with the business of the company
我的纽约之行使为了公司的业务



将合同的权利全部或部分转让
1)assign his rights under the contract in whole or in part
2)assign all or part of his rights under the contract

专有权
1)right exclusively belongs to sb
2)exclusive right/right exclusive to sb

合并后的法人或者其他组织
1)the legal person or other organization after the merger
2)the legal person or other organization arising from the merger

...书面通知另一方，说明变更的理由
注意这句话不是两个并立的动词
1)notify the other party and explain the reason therefor
2)the party proposing such modification shall notify in writing the other party two (2) months
 in advance, explaining the reason therefor.


由于或依据

但由于或依据许可方对其产品相关的业务的绝大部分资产进行兼并、合并或出售，许可方可以转让本合同
however , this contract may be assigned by the licensor as a result of ,or pursuant to ,
any merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of its assets relating to its business 
concerning the products.


两方中的任何一方是neither party
两方以上的是no party/none of the parties


就这样定了
so that’s that


 当事人可以约定一方解除合同的条件。解除合同的条件成就时，解除权人可以解除合同
 
 1) the parties may agree upon conditions  for a party to rescind the contract.


 根据合同法的精神，这里所谓的一方解除合同的条件，应该指的是一方有权解除合同的条件  
 2)the parties may agree upon conditions which shall entitle a party to rescind the contract.
 when such conditions are fulfilled, the party with the right of rescission may rescind the
 contract. 



 当事人一方不履行合同义务或者履行合同义务不符合约定的，在履行义务或者采取补救措施后，对方还有其他
损失的，应当赔偿损失

1) it shall pay damages to the other party if that other party has suffered other losses after
 it has performed it contractual obligations or taken remedial measures.
这种翻译把两个状语放在一起，造成了句子结构的失衡，将对方还有其他损失的状语从句处理为（if any）就好


2)if a party fails to perform its obligations under the contract or its contractual obligations
are not performed in the manner agreed upon, it shall indemnify/compemsate the other party for
its other losses(if any) after it has performed its contractual obligations or taken remedial 
measurers. 

NOTES:如果没有赔偿对象的时候，赔偿损失是 pay damages(相当于支付损失赔偿金)



 当事人一方不履行合同义务或者履行合同义务不符合约定的，给对方造成损失的，损失赔偿额应当相当于因违
约所造成的损失，包括合同履行后可以获得的利益，

1)including the interests the other party may receive after the contract has been performed.
这种翻译方法是错误的，必须使用虚拟语态来表达。

2)if a party fails to perform its obligations under the contract or its contractual obligations
are not performed in the manner agreed upon, thus causing losses to the other party, damages to
be paid shall be equivalent to the losses caused by the breach of contract, including the 
interests receivable by the other party had the contract been performed, 

 

但不得超过违反合同一方订立合同时遇见或者应当预见到的因违反合同可能造成的损失。

 provided that such damages shall not be in excess of the loss which the party in breach

 此处的动词为过去式
 foresaw or ought to have foreseen at the time of the conclusion of the contract 

 注意此处的表达
 as a possible consequence of breach of contract.



