合同
 Arbitration award 仲裁裁决
 
 Arbitrators Appointed 任命的仲裁员
 AS designated in the Arbitration award由仲裁裁决规定的
 
 All arbitration fees shall be borne by the losing party 所有仲裁费用均应由败诉方承担。
  written agreement on arbitration有关仲裁的书面协议
 arbitration agreement仲裁协议
 arbitration clause仲裁条款
 institute/start legal proceedings with a law court/file a suit in a law court
 
 abide by chinese laws and regulations and must not jeopardize the public interests of china 必须遵守中国的法律法规，不得损害中国的社会公共利益
 交易习惯 trade practice
 
  which is more favorable to the JVC对合营公司和双方更为有利
 
 委托仲裁委员会主席指定的一名仲裁员作为独任仲裁员，成立仲裁庭，单独审理案件
 appoint one(1) arbitrator designated by the chairman of the arbitration committee as the sole arbitrator in the arbitral tribunal to try the case alone.
 
 双方因本合同引起的或与本合同有关的一切争议（包括但不限于有关本合同的效力、解释、履行的争议、分歧或权利主张）
 all disputes between the parties that arise from this contract or are related to this contract(including but not limited to disputes, controversies or claims with respect to its effectiveness, interpretation and performance)
 
 仲裁地点为中国上海，仲裁以中文进行
 the place of arbitration shall be shanghai, china, and the arbitration shall be conducted in chinese
 
 但应执行承担所发生的费用
 provided that it shall undertake to bear the costs incurred
 
 仲裁裁决是终局的，对双方均有拘束力，除非仲裁裁决另有规定，仲裁费用由败诉一方承担
 the arbitral award shall be final and binding upon the parties, unless otherwise specified in the arbitral award, the arbitration fees shall be borne by the losing party
 
 when concluding and performing a contract, the parties shall comply with the laws and administrative regulations and observe social ethics, and they may not disrupt the social and economic order or jeopardize the public interests.
 当事人订立、履行合同，应当遵守法律，行政法规，尊重社会公德，不得扰乱社会经济秩序，损害社会公共利益
 
 a lawfully formed contract shall be legally binding on the parties. the parties shall perform their respective obligations as agreed, and no party may unilaterally modify or rescind the contract. a lawfully formed contract shall be protected by law.
 依法成立的合同，对当事人具有法律约束力。当事人应当按照约定履行自己的义务，不得擅自变更或者解除合同。依法成立的合同，受法律保护
 
 when concluding a contract, the parties shall have the appropriate capacity for civil rights and for civil acts. a party may lawfully entrust an agent to conclude a contract on its behalf.
 当事人订立合同，应当具有相应的民事权利能力和民事行为能力。当事人依法可以委托代理人订立合同
 
 the parties may conclude a contract in writing, orally or in another form. where the laws or administrative regulations require a contract to be concluded in writing, the contract shall be in writing . if the parties agree that their contract shall be in writing, it shall then be in writing.
 当事人订立合同，有书面形式、口头形式和其他形式。法律行政法规规定采用书面形式的，应当采用书面形式。当事人约定采用书面形式的，应当采用书面形式。
 
 the term” in writing” refers to a form which is capable of tangibly stating the content, such as a written contract, letter and electrically or electronically transmitted document(including a telegram, telex, fascimile, electronic data interchange and e-mail)
 书面形式是指合同书、信件和数据电文（包括电报、电传、传真、电子数据交换和电子邮件）等可以有形地表现说载内容的形式。
 
 a lawfully formed contract shall be effective upon its formation. where the procedures of approval and registration are required for a contract to become effective under certain provisions of laws and administrative regulations, such provisions shall govern.
 依法成立的合同，自合同成立时生效。法律、行政法规规定应当办理批准、登记等手续生效的，依照其规定
 
 the parties may agree to attach conditions /a time limit to the effectiveness of a contract. a contract with conditions/ a time limit attached to its effectiveness shall take effect upon fulfillment of such conditions/ time limit. a contract with conditions/ a time limit  attached to its dissolution/for its termination shall become void when such conditions are fulfilled.
 当事人对合同的效力可以约定附条件/附期限。附生效条件/期限的合同，自条件成就/期限届至时生效。附解除/期限条件的合同，自条件成就时/期限届满时生效

 if a party illegitimately impedes the fulfillment of the conditions for its own interests, such conditions shall be deemed to have been fulfilled. if a arty illegitimately facilitates the fulfillment of the conditions, such conditions shall be deemed to have not been fulfilled
 当事人为自己的利益不正当地阻止条件成就的，视为条件已成就；不正当地促成条件成就的，视为条件不成就
 
 the parties shall fully perform their obligations as agreed
 当事人应当按照约定全面履行自己的义务
 
 the parties shall perform such obligations as giving notice, providing assistance and maintaining confidentiality on the principle of good faith and in accordance with the nature and purpose of the contract and trade practice.
 当事人应当遵循诚实信用原则，根据合同的性质、目的和交易习惯履行通知、协助、保密等义务
 注意在翻译时候，这三个词如果翻译成名词则含义不清楚，需要分别添加三个带有动作的词语才能表达清楚
 
 after a contract takes effect, the parties may reach supplementary agreement on particulars such as quality, price or remuneration and place of performance which are not provided for or are not definitely stipulated in the contract. if no supplementary agreement can be reached, such matters shall be determined in accordance with the relevant clauses of the contract or trade practice.
 合同生效后，当事人就质量、价款或者报酬、履行地点等内容没有约定或约定不明确的，可以协议补充；不能达成补充协议的，按照合同有关条款或者交易习惯确定
 
 after a contract becomes effective, no party may refuse to perform its obligations under the contract by reason of a change in its name or a change in its legal representative, responsible officer or handing person.
 合同生效后，当事人不得因姓名、名称的变更或者法定代表人、负责任、承办人的变动而不履行合同义务
 
 supplementary documents made in accordance with the various principles set out in this contract shall from an integral part hereof and shall be equally authentic as this contract.
 按照本合同规定的各项原则订立的补充文件为本合同的组成部分，与本合同具有同等效力
 
 in accordance with the provisions of this contract, party A shall perform the following obligations根据本合同，甲方应履行下述义务
 
 in the case of a discrepancy in any word or sentence used in different versions, such word or sentence shall be interpreted on the basis of the purpose of the contract
 本合同使用的语句不一致的，应当根据合同的目的予以解释
 
 if the parties to a contract involving a foreign partner have made no decision thereon, the law of the country that bears on the contract most closely shall apply.
 （涉外合同的当事人可以选择处理合同争议所使用的法律，但法律另有规定的除外）涉外合同的当事人没有选择的，使用与合同有最密切联系的国家的法律
 
 the parties may modify their contract upon agreement reached through consultation
 当事人协商一致的，可以变更合同
 
 if any particulars of a contract modified upon agreement between the parties are not definite, no modification of the contract shall be deemed to have been made
 当事人对合同变更的内容约定不明确的，推定为未变更
 
 the creditor may assign all or party of his rights under the contract to a third party, expect in any of the following circumstances
 债权人可以将合同的权利全部或部分转让给第三人，但有下列情形之一的除外
 
 by nature of the contract such rights are not assignable
 根据合同性质不得转让
 
 the parties have agreed that such rights may not be assigned
 按照当事人的约定不得转让
 
 the law provides that such rights may not be assigned
 依照法律规定不得转让
 
 if the creditor assigns his rights, it shall notify the debtor, such assignment without notification shall be invalid as far as the debtor is concerned
 债权人转让权利的，应当通知债务人。未经通知，该转让对债务人不发生效力
 
 the creditor may not revoke the notification of the assignment of his rights, unless otherwise agreed by the assignee.
 债权人转让去你的通知不得撤销，但经受让人同意的除外
 
 when the creditor assigns his rights, the assignee shall also acquire the incidental rights in connection with the claim, unless such incidental rights are exclusive to creditor.
 债权人转让权利的，受让人取得与债权有关的从权利，但该从权利专属于债权人自身的除外
 
 after receiving the notice of the assignment of the claim, the debtor may initiate against the assignee the defense which he had against the assignor
 债务人接到债权转让通知后，债务人对让与人的抗辩，可以向受让人主张
 
 if at the time of receipt of the notice of the assignment of the claim the debtor has a claim against the assignor and the claim will mature before or at the same time as the assigned claim, the debtor may set off such claim against the assignee.
 债务人接到债权转让通知是，债务人对让与人享有债权，并且债务人的债权先于转让的债权到期或者同时到期的，债务人可以向受让人主张抵销
 
 if the debtor intends to transfer all or part of his obligation under the contract to a third person, such transfer shall be subject to the consent of the creditor.
 债务人将合同的义务全部或者部分转移给第三人的，应当经债权人同意
 
 when the debtor transfer his obligations, the new debtor may initiate against the creditor the defense which the original debtor had against the creditor.
 债务人转移义务的，性债务人可以主张原债务人对债权人的抗辩
 
 when the debtor transfer his obligations, the new debtor shall bear the incidental liabilities in connection with the primary liability, unless such incidental liabilities are exclusive to the original debtor.
 债务人转移义务的，新债务人应当承担与主债务有关的从债务，但该从债务专属于原债务人自身的除外
 
 if laws and administrative regulations provide that assignment of rights or the transfer of obligations shall go through the procedures of approval and registration, such provision shall govern.
 法律、行政法规规定转让权利或者转移义务应当办理批准、登记等手续的，依照其规定
 
 each party may, with the consent of the other party, assign all of his rights and obligations under the contract to a third party.
 当事人一方经对方同意，可以将自己在合同中的权利和义务一并转让给第三人
 
 if a party is merged after the conclusion of a contract, the legal person or other organization arising from the merger shall exercise the rights and perform the obligations under the contract. if a party is divided after the conclusion of a contract, the legal persons or other organizations resulting from the division shall be entitled to the claims and bear the liabilities jointly and severally with respect to the rights and obligations under the contract, unless otherwise agreed by the creditor and debtor.
 当事人订立合同后合并的，由合并后的法人或者其他组织形式合同权利、履行合同义务。当事人订立合同后分立的，除债权人和债务人另有约定的以外，由分立的法人或其他组织对合同的权利和义务享有连带债权，承担连带债务。
 
 the right and obligations under a contract shall be terminated upon the occurrence of any of the following events有下列情形之一的，合同权利义务终止
 when the liability has been performed as agreed债务已经按照约定履行
 when the contract is dissolved合同解除
 when the liabilities are offset against each other债务相互抵销
 when the debtor lodges the subject matter according to law债务人依法将标的物提存
 when the creditor releases the debtor from his liability债权人免除债务
 when the claim and liability fall into the same person债权债务同归于一人
 when the other events for termination as stipulated by the law or agreed upon by the parties occur.法律规定或者当事人约定终止的其他情形
 
 a contract may be dissolved when agreement on its dissolution has been reached by the parties through consultation当事人协商一致，可以解除合同
 
 the parties may agree upon conditions which shall entitle a party to rescind the contract. when such conditions are fulfilled, the party with the right of rescission may rescind the contract.当事人可以约定一方解除合同的条件。解除合同的条件成就时，解除权人可以解除合同
 
 a party may rescind the contract in any of the following events有下列情形之一的，当事人可以解除合同
 
 if the purpose of the contract cannot be achieved because of force majeure因不可抗力致使不能实现合同目的
 
 if ,before the expiry of the time limit for performance, the other party states explicitly or indicates by its act that it will not perform its main liability在履行期限届满之前，当事人一方明确表示或者以自己的行为表明不履行主要债务
 
 if the other party has delayed the performance of his main liability and still fails to perform it within a reasonable period of time after it has been urged to do so.当事人一方迟延履行主要债务，经催告后在合理期限内仍未履行
 
 if the other party has delayed the performance of his liability or committed another breach of the contract, making it impossible for the purpose of the contract to be achieved.当事人一方迟延履行主要债务或者有其他违约行为致使不能实现合同目的的
 if other circumstances as stipulated by law occur.法律规定的其他情形
 
 if the law (does not) stipulates or the parities have(not) agreed on a time limit for exercising the right to rescind the contract, and the party with the right of rescission fails to exercise such right at the expiration of the time limit, such right shall be extinguished.
 法律没有规定或者当事人没有约定解除权行使期限，经对方催告后在合理期限内不行使的，该权利消灭
 
 if a party elects to rescind the contract pursuant to the second paragraph of article 3 and article 4 above, it shall notify the other party. the contract shall be rescinded when the notice of rescission reaches the other party. if the other party objects to the rescission, it may petition a people’s court or an arbitration institution to confirm the validity of the rescission of the contract.
 当事人一方依照前述第三条第二款、第四条的规定主张解除合同的，应当通知对方。合同自通知到达对方时解除，对方有异议的，可以请求人民法院或仲裁机构确认解除合同的效力
 
 after a contract has been rescinded, performance of any portion thereof that has not yet been performed shall terminate; with respect to the performed portion, a party may, depending on the status of performance and the nature of the contract, demand that it be restored to its original state or take other remedies, and has the right to claim damages. 
 合同解除后，尚未履行的，终止履行；已经履行的，根据履行情况和合同性质，当事人可以要求恢复原状、采取其他补救措施，并有权要求赔偿损失
 
 termination of the rights and obligations under a contract shall not affect the force of the settlement and liquidation clauses contained in the contract.
 合同的权利义务终止，不影响合同中结算和清理条款的效力
 
 the parties may decide to terminate the contract by mutual consent at any time under conditions agreed upon between them...
 本合同各方一致认为终止合同符合各方最大利益时。。。
 
 符合。。。的利益
 in sb’s interest
 
 it is in our interest that there will be peaceful coexistence in that area.
 该地区出现和平共处的局面符合我们的利益
 
 最大利益是 best interest， 不是biggest interest
 
  自行决定at one’s discretion=freedom to decide for oneself what should be done
 
 擅自使用=未经授权使用=make unauthorized use of /use without authorization
 
 达成妥协或安排compound or make arrangements
 
 善意重组bona fide reorganization 
 
 纠正违约行为cure the default
 
 abandons or forfeits the power, authority or legal right to do or transact business anywhere in china放弃或丧失在中国任何地方进行业务交易的权利、权限或法律权利
 
 continues for a period of more than six (6)months.持续超过六个月
 
 with the reference to the current international market prices 参照当时的国际市场价格
 
 if a party fails to perform its obligations under the contract or its contractual obligations are not performed in the manner agreed upon, it shall be liable for breach of contract by continuing to perform the contract, taking remedial measures or indemnifying the losses.
 当事人一方不履行合同义务或者履行合同义务不符合约定的，银行承担继续履行，采取补救措施或赔偿损失等违约行为
 
 if a party states expressly or indicates by its acts that it will  not perform its obligations under the contract, the other party may hold it liable /bear the liability for breach of contract before the expiry of the time limit for performance.
 当事人一方明确表示或者以自己的行为表明不履行合同义务的，对方可以在履行期限届满之前要求其承担违约责任
 
 the parties may agree that when a party breaches the contract it shall pay the other party a certain amount as a fine depending on the circumstances of the breach, or they may agree on a method for computing the damages resulting from breach of contract.
 当事人可以约定一方违约时应当根据违约情况向对方支付一定数额的违约金，也可以约定因违约产生的损失赔偿额的计算方法。
 
 违约金可以依据上下文翻译为：penalty for breach of contract, default fine, penalty, fine 都可以
 
 if the agreed default fine is lower than the loss caused, the party to receive such amount may petition a people’s court or an arbitration institution to increase it; if the agreed default fine is excessively higher than the losses caused, the party to pay such amount may petition a people’s court or an arbitration institution to reduce it appropriately.
 约定的违约金低于造成的损失的，当事人可以请求人民法院或者仲裁机构予以增加，约定的违约金过分高于造成的损失的，当事人可以请求人民法院或者仲裁机构予以适当减少。
 
 if the parties agree upon a default fine for delayed performance, the party in breach shall perform his liabilities after paying the default fine.
 当事人就迟延履行约定违约金的，违约方支付违约金后，还应当履行债务
 
 in case a contract cannot be performed because of force majeure, liability shall be exempted in part or in whole depending on the effect of force majeure, unless otherwise stipulated by law. if an event of force majeure occurs after a party has delayed in performance, its liability shall not be exempted.
 因不可抗力不能履行合同的，根据不可抗力的影响，部分或者全部免除责任，但法律另有规定的除外。当事人迟延履行后发生不可抗力的，不能免除责任。
 
 for the purpose of this contract law, force majeure refers to objective circumstances that are unforeseeable, unavoidable and insurmountable
 本合同法所称不可抗力，是指不能预见、不能避免并不能克服的客观情况
 
 if a party is unable to perform the contract because of force majeure , it shall notify the other party so as to mitigate losses that might be inflicted on that other party and provide proof thereof within a reasonable period of time.
 当事人一方因不可抗力不能履行合同的，应当及时通知对方,以减少可能给对方造成的损失，并应当在合理期限内提供证明。
 
 after a party breaches the contract, the other party shall take proper measures to prevent the aggravation of the loss. if the loss is aggravated due to that party’s failure to take proper measures, that party may not claim damages for the aggravated portion of the loss.
 当事人一方违约后，对方应当采取适当措施防止损失的扩大，没有采取适当措施致使损失扩大的，不得就扩大的损失要求赔偿。
 
 the reasonable expenses incurred by the party in preventing the aggravation of the loss shall be borne by the party in breach.
 当事人因防止损失扩大而支出的合理费用，由违约方承担
 
 if both parties breach the contract, each party shall bear its corresponding liability.
 当事人双方都违反合同的，应当各自承担相应的责任
 
 if a party’s breach of contract infringes upon the personal or property rights and interests of the other party, the aggrieved party shall have the right to elect to hold the party in breach liable for breach of contract in accordance with this contract law or hold it liable for tort pursuant to other laws.
 因当事人一方的违约行为，侵害对方人身，财产权益的，受损害方有权选择依照本法要求其承担违约责任或者依照其他法律要求其承担侵权责任。
 
 
 impose a penalty ranging form issuance of a warning or imposing a fine to forfeiting the Land Use Rights to a portion of ,or the entire, Land together with the building thereon and attachments thereto without compension.
 基于警告、罚款、直至无偿收回一部分或全部出让土地的土地使用权以及地块上的建筑物和附着物的处罚
 
 where the relevant breach is capable of being remedied within fourteen(14) days after its occurrence and defaulting party is proceeding diligently to remedy such breach , the date for the completion of transaction shall be deferred to the first business day after the expiry of such fourteen (14)-day period, provided that the date for the completion of transaction shall not be so deferred more than once. if the defaulting party shall fail to remedy such breach (if capable of remedy) within fourteen (14) after the date of breach ,the non-defaulting party shall have the right to rescind this agreement, and the parties shall be released from their obligations hereunder
 倘若相关违约行为可以在发生后的14日内予以纠正，且违约方正在努力纠正，交易完成日期应推延至该14日期限届满后的第一个营业日，但交易完成日期只能推延一次，如果违约方未在14日期限内纠正其违约行为，非违约方有权取消本合同，各方在本合同项下的义务应予解除
 
 party a shall in no event...
 甲方在任何情况下均不。。。
 
 the provisions of this article shall survive for a period of three(3)years from the date of termination.
 在本合同终止之日起3年内仍然有效
 
 by the notary public office at the locality where the event of force majeure occurred.
 由不可抗力发生地区的公正机关
 
 any supplementary instruments to be concluded in accordance with the various principles set forth in this contract shall constitute an integral set forth in this contract shall constitute an integral part hereof and shall have the same legal force as this contract.
 按照本合同规定的各项原则订立的补充文件为本合同的组成部分，与本合同具有同等的法律效力
 
 matters not covered in this contract shall be dealt with in separate instruments to be entered into by the parties through friendly consulations.
 本合同未尽事宜，由双方通过友好协商，另行签订书面文件
 
 this contract is executed in quadruplicate. each party hereto shall hold one(1)counterpart.one counterpart shall be submitted to the examination and approval authority for approval or for reference, and the other shall be kept by the company for the record.
 本合同一式4份，本合同各方各持1份，1份报审批机构审批或供其参考，另1份由公司存档
 
 if any provision contained in this contract is inconsistent with or in contravention of a provision in the articles of association, the provision in this contract shall prevail.
 若本合同的规定与公司章程的规定不一致或相抵触的，以本合同的规定为准
 
 in case of any conflict or inconsistency between the articles of association and this contract in relation to their respective rights and obligations agreed upon between the parties in connection with the establishment of the JVC, the relevant provisions of this contract shall prevail.
 如果章程与本合同在双方设立合营公司的权利和义务方面的约定存在冲突或不一致，以本合同的有关规定为准
 
 notices and other communications between the parties shall be written in english or chinese and shall be delivered by...to the address of the addressee as indicated herein...
 双方之间的通知或其他通讯应以英文或中文书写。。。至合同载明的收件方地址。
 
 notices delivered by hand shall be deemed to have been effectively served on the date of personal delivery;
 专人递交的，递送之日视为有效送达
 
 ...given on the fifth(5th) working day after they were sent out;
 交付快递后的第5个工作日视为有效送达
 
 on the date of confirmation of the successful transmission thereof
 收到成功发送确认之日视为有效送达
 
  if either party shall fail on any occasion to demand strict compliance with any of the clauses in this contract, such failure shall not be construed as a waiver or renunciation (放弃权、拒绝承认书)of those clauses or rights, which shall continue to apply in full.
 任何一方在任何时候未要求另一方严格遵守本合同中的任何条款，不应理解为该方放弃该等条款或权利，该等条款或权利应继续完全适用。
 
 Since date of most recent financial statements there has not been:
 ......
 (d) any satisfaction or discharge of any lien, claim, or encumbrance or payment of any obligation by the Company, except in the ordinary course of business and the satisfaction or discharge of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
 
 参考译文
 
 自财务报表最近一期截止日以来：
 ......
 （4）未有任何优先权、权利主张和权利负担因公司清偿等原因而进行解除，公司也未支付任何债务，除了在日常经营活动中产生 、因公司清偿等原因的解除不会产生重大不利影响的优先权、权利主张和权利负担；
 
 
 解析
 
 1、lien≠留置权，在美国语境中更接近于“优先权”，特此说明，不展开了。
 
 claim此处不是“诉讼”或“索赔”，而是“权利主张”或“请求权”。
 
 encumbrance在香港翻为“产权负担”，我国《公司法》里也用过“权利负担”，包括抵押、留置等。
 
 2、date of most recent financial statements 财务报表最近一期截止日
 
 可先阅读推送：金融英语佳句解析No.33：financial statements as of XX，对财务报表英文表达有所了解。
 
 比如我国的2016年度财务报表最近一期截止日就是“2016年12月31日”。
 
 此日也是指相关的“资产负债表日”，对于年度报表指的就是会计年度末，对于半年度报表、季度报表、月度报表指的就是会计中期期末。
 
 2、合同终止和合同解除是不是一回事？
 
 satisfaction or discharge of .... by the Company为什么翻为“因公司清偿等原因而进行解除”？
 
 回答这个问题前，先要了解下“合同终止”和“合同解除”的区别。
 
 《合同法》第九十一条 有下列情形之一的，合同的权利义务终止：
 （一）债务已经按照约定履行；
 （二）合同解除；
 （三）债务相互抵销；
 （四）债务人依法将标的物提存；
 （五）债权人免除债务；
 （六）债权债务同归于一人；
 （七）法律规定或者当事人约定终止的其他情形。
 
 合同的解除
 合意解除：协商解决，约定解除权
 法定解除
 （1）因不可抗力致使不能实现合同目的；
 （2）在履行期限届满之前，当事人一方明确表示或者以自己的行为表明不履行主要债务（拒绝履行/毁约）；
 （3）当事人一方迟延履行主要债务，经催告后在合理期限内仍未履行；
 （4）当事人一方迟延履行债务或者有其他违约行为和致使不能实现合同目的；
 （5）法律规定的其他情形。
 
 简而言之，合同解除是合同终止的一种形式；合同解除必然导致合同终止，但合同终止不全是因为合同解除导致的。所以在翻译合同时，碰到termination并不是一味地翻译为“解除”。
 
 3、satisfaction和discharge在合同上的运用
 
 satisfaction是指（义务的）履行或（债务的）清偿，所以属于合同终止的情形之一，而非合同解除情形之一。
 
 （Lexisnexis 英汉法律词典）A contract may be discharged in any one of four ways, namely, by performance, by agreement, by one party accepting the other’s breach as repudiation, and by frustration.  
 
 discharge合同的方式有四种：
 （1）通过履行（perfomance）—— 合同终止情形之一；
 （2）通过约定（agreement）——合同合意解除；
 （3）通过frustration（因不可抗力致使不能实现合同目的）——合同法定解除情形之一
 （4）通过repudiatory breach（实际违约），其实就是除frustration以外的几种合同法定解除情形，网上或字典将repudiatory breach翻为“毁约”或将repudiation翻为“拒绝履行”太过狭隘了，refusal to perform是repudiatory breach五大情形之一，此处不展开了。
 
 所以，discharge包括了因satisfaction而终止合同的情形； discharge和termination一样不能一味地翻为“解除”、“免除”等。
 
 4、satisfaction和discharge在lien上的运用
 
 （BusinessDictionary）Satisfaction of lien ：Fulfillment of all obligations under a lien to the acceptance of a lienor. 
 
 所以satisfaction指的是lien因清偿/履行债务而解除。
 
 Release of lien
 (1) Liability satisfied or unenforceable; or
 (2) Bond accepted
 
 没有搜到discharge of lien，但根据dicharge在合同上的运用，和release of lien有点类似，所以discharge应该是包括了通过satisfaction而解除lien的情形。
 
 所以将satisfaction or discharge of .... by the Company翻为“因公司清偿等原因而进行解除”


