CO_LIQUIDATION


 at its sole discretion ,judgment and option自行酌情、判断、决定
 
 要逐步推进商业commerce、

 外贸foreign trade、

 金融banking、

 保险insurance、
 
 证券securities、

 电信telecommunications、

 中介服务intermediary services

 等领域的对外开放should be gradually opened to the outside world.
 
 profit distribution 利润分配

 merger兼并

 consolidation合并

 or other reorganization involving the assigning Party其他重大重组而产生的公司
 
 ability and capability 有资格、有能力
 
 partner合伙人

 partnership合伙企业
 
joint venture合营企业

 association关联企业
 
corporation or other body corporate法人

unincorporated  association非法人

association协会

trust托斯拉, 

agency of state国家机构

competent authority 主管部门
 
the enterprise expansion plan企业发展规划,

plans for production and business activities生产经营活动方案,

budget for revenues and expenditures收支预算,
 
profit distribution利润分配,

plans concerning labor and wages and winding up劳动工资计划、停业,

as well as the appointment or engagement 聘请或任命

of the general manger以及总经理

deputy general manager副总经理,

chief  engineer总工程师,

chief accountant总会计师

and auditor审计师 

and their functions and powers职权

and salaries and benefits待遇. 

 
董事会成员不得少于3人。董事名额的分配由合营各方参照出资比例协商确定

the board of directors shall consist of no less than three  members, the number of 
directors to be appointed by each party shall be determined through consultation by the
parties to the joint venture with reference to the proportion of their respective capital
contribution

 
 董事会会议每年至少召开1次，由董事长负责召集并主持
 the board meeting shall be convened at least once a year. which  shall be called and 
 presided over by the chairman of the board.

 
 经1/3以上董事提议，可以由董事长召开董事会临时会议
 the chairman may convene an interim meeting upon a proposal made by more than one third of
 the total number of directors.

 
 董事不能出席的，可以出具委托书委托他人代表其出席和表决
 if a director is unable to attend the meeting, he may issue a power of attorney to appoint
 a proxy to represent him and vote  on his behalf.

 
 增资、减资  increase in or reduction of the joint venture ‘s registered capital

 企业的合并、分立merger or division of the joint venture


  
 董事会出现职位空缺
 a vacancy arises on the board of directors
 继任董事作为一个名词词组，用successor一个词就可以表示清楚
 如果继任用作动词的时候就应该是to succeed sb in a post 

 
 合营公司设总经理1名，由甲方提名。副总经理1名，由乙方提名。总经理、副总经理由董事会聘任，任
期3年，经董事会批准后可以连任；总经理直接对董事会负责，副总经理协助总经理工作

 the company shall have a general manger, who shall be nominated by party A and deputy 
general manager, who shall be nominated by party B. the general manager and the deputy 
general manager shall be appointed by the board of directors for a term of three(3)years. 
their term of office may be renewed with the approval by the board of directors. the
general manager shall be directly responsible to the board of directors, and the deputy
general manager shall assist the general manager in his  work.
 
 
 总经理有权根据劳动合同和中国有关法律规定，对公司部门经理及其以下各级职工的雇佣hiring
 
 解聘dismissal

 升级promotion

 降职demotion

 调动transfer
 
 等作出决定并予以执行
 the general manager shall have the right to make an implement decisions on the ...of the
 managers of the carious departments and staff and workers at lower levels in accordance
 with the contracts and the provisions of the relevant laws of china.

 
 总经理的主要职责是
 the main responsibilities of the general manager shall be to ...

 执行董事会的各项决定implement the various decisions of the board of directors
 
 组织领导日常生产、经营和管理to organize and lead the  day-to-day production

 编制并向董事会提交年度计划和预算and to prepare and submit to the board of directors the 
 annual plan and budget，
 
 包括财物预算including the financial budget，
 
 资本投资和处分and the plan for capital investments and dispositions，

 借款计划borrowings

 价格水平and forecasts of price level，
 
 销售量sales volumes

 开支expenses

 收益earnings

 可分配利润和业务经营所需的其他项目的预测distribution profits and such other items as are
 required for business operations，

 此外，总经理还行使以下职权in addition, the general manager shall  exercise the following
 rights and duties.
 
 the general manager responsibility system under the leadership of the board of directors
 董事会领导下的总经理负责制
 
 Liabilities负债

 obligations债务,
 
 loses 损失

 damages损害赔偿, 
 
 actions costs  诉讼费用, 
 
 expenses费用

 charges开支, 
 
 legal costs法律费用

 claims 索赔, 
 
 debts债务

 allegations指控, 
 
 actions诉讼

 causes of action诉讼事由,

 demands要求

 disbursements垫支
 
of any kind or nature whatsoever 一切任何性质的

lost profits利润损失

opportunity costs机会损失 

fair market price合理的市场价格，

overseas suppliers海外供应商

designated Affiliate指定的关联公司，
 
every endeavor to expand the market share of Products in  China
努力扩大产品在中国的市场份额
 
 Special 特殊的

incidental附带性的

consequential后果性的

direct or  indirect damages直接或间接的损害
 
 Whether known or unknown, arising from or in connection with the claim and existing as at the date of this settlement agreement
 
 
 Any dispute arising from, out of , or in connection with ,this agreement shall be settled 
by the Parties through friendly  consultation.
因本协议引起、产生于本协议或与本协议有关的任何争议

 
 Terminate this agreement whereupon all obligations and liabilities of the parties
 hereunder shall cease and  determine
 终止本协议，协议一旦终止，各方在本协议项下的所有义务和责任即刻终止
 

 Shall not at any time hereafter make use of or disclose or divulge to any person any such 
 information 
 在此后的任何时候均不适用或向任何人披露或泄露任何该等信息
 

 to decide for itself自行决定
 
 甲方应遵循公平合理的原则，并保护合营公司的利益。
 party A shall abide by the principles of fairness and  reasonableness and safeguard the
 interests of the JVC .

 
 在此等情况下购买物资，合营公司须支付的购买价款，应相当于甲方在其关联公司购买同类物资支付的
价款加上运费、杂费、保险费。
 
for purchase under such circumstances, the purchase price of  such materials to be paid by
 the JVC shall be equal to the  purchase price of materials of the same kind paid by party 
 A or its Affiliates plus freight, incidental expenses and insurance.

 
如合营公司有意通过其他途径（包括不经甲方安排）在国内或国外购买物资，应由合营公司自行做出决
定
 where the JVC intends to purchase material in or outside of the  PRC by other means(includ
ing purchases not under the  arrangement of party A),the JVC shall make its own decision.
 

 附件一列出辅助设备和设施（“甲方设备”）
 auxiliary equipment and facilities listed in Appendix I（“the Party A Equipment”）

 
 settlement and liquidation of the company 公司结算清理后

 in making up the losses of the JV,垫补合营企业亏损

 increase the capital of the JV增加资本

 to expand its production upon扩大生产

 如果累积的基金额达到公司注册资本的50%
 in the event that the accumulated fund amounts to 50%of the registered capital of the JVC
 

 合营企业职工的录用、辞退、the employment and dismissal of staff and workers

 报酬、福利、劳动保护、劳动保险等事项，the remuneration, welfare benefits, labor protection
 and labor insurance for staff and  workers.

 应当依法通过订立合同加以规定。
 matters relating to the ...of a JV shall be provided for in contracts concluded according
 to law
 
 工资奖励制度
 现金奖励(奖励可翻译为reward，但是在英美多用 incentive，含有刺激、激励的意思 )

cash incentive

 按劳分配 distribution according to work

 多劳多得 more pay for more work

 工会组织a trade union

 列席会议 attend a meeting as a nonvoting member

 劳动手册 the workers’ s book

 规章制度rules and regulation 

 警告、记过give disciplinary warnings, record and demerits.

 清算程序 liquidation process

 宣布破产或资不抵债 the company is declared bankrupt or insolvent

 同时对外公告公司不复存在make a formal public announcement stating  that the company has 
ceased to exist
 
 合营企业解散时，其资产近额或剩余财产减除企业未分配利润、各项基金和清算后的余额 ，超过实缴
资本的部分为清算所得，应当依法缴纳所得税

 at the time when a JV is dissolved, any portion of its net assets or the balance of its 
residual property less the  undistributed profits, various funds and liquidation expense 
that is excess of the paid-in capital shall be income derived from liquidation. which shall
 be subject to income tax according to law.

 
 合营企业以其全部资产对其债务承担责任，合营企业清偿债务后的剩余财产按照合营各方的出资比例进
行分配，但合营奇特协议、合同、章程另有规定的除外

  a JV shall be liable to its debts with all of its assets. the remaining property after
 liquidation of the debts of the JV  shall be distributed to the parties in proportion to
 their  capital contribution unless otherwise provided for in the JV agreement, contract
 and articles of association .

 
 并向登记管理机构办理注销登记手续，缴销营业执照
 go through the formalities for canceling its registration with the registration office and
 turn its business license.
 
 截至本合同规定终止时止
 until this contract is terminated in accordance with its  provisions for termination 

 以两者中先发生的日期为准
 whichever occurs first/earlier
 
 严重亏损，无力继续经营
 incurs serious losses, rendering it unable to continue operation
 
 不履行合营企业协议、合同、章程规定义务的一方，应当对合营企业由此造成的损失负赔偿责任
 fails to perform its obligations under the JV agreement,  contract and/or articles of
 association shall be liable for indemnifying the JV for its losses arising therefrom

 
 合营企业宣告解散时，应当进行清算
 a JV announcing its dissolution shall undergo liquidationprocedure.
 

 成立清算委员会，由清算委员会负责清算事宜
 it shall set up a liquidation committee in accordance with...the liquidation committee
 shall be in charge of liquidation matters.
 
 董事不能担任或不适合担任清算委员会成员时
 in case the directors cannot serve as or are unsuitable to be members of the liquidation
 committee
 


 清算委员会的任务是对合营企业的财产、债权债务进行全面清查，编制资产负债表和财产目录，提出财
 产作价和计算依据，制定清算方案，提请董事会会议通过后执行

 the tasks of the liquidation committee are to conduct a thorough check of the property,
 claims and liabilities of the JV, work out the balance sheet and an inventory of the
 property, put forward a liquidation plan, all these shall be carried out upon approval by 
 the board of directors.

 

 清算期间，清算委员会代表该合营企业起诉与应诉
 during the process of liquidation committee shall represent the JV in the institution of
  and defense in legal proceedings.
 

 严重失职行为
 serious dereliction of duty
 
  
 当事人一方不履行合同或者履行合同义务不符合约定，给对方造成损失的，损失赔偿额应当相当于因违
约说造成的损失，包括合同履行后可以获得的利益，但不得超过违反合同一方订立合同时遇见或者应当
预见到的因违反合同可能造成的损失。
 
 当事人可以约定一方违约时应当根据违约情况向对方制度一定数额的为冶金，也可以约定因违约产生的
损失赔偿额的计算方法
 
 约定的违约金地域造成的损失的，当事人可以请求人民法院或仲裁机构予以增加，约定的违约金过分高
于造成的损失的，当事人可以请求人民法院或者仲裁机构予以适当减少
 
 当事人就迟延履行约定违约金的，违约方支付违约金后，还应当履行义务
 
 因不可抗力不能履行合同的，根据不可抗力的影响，部分或者全部免除责任，但法律另有规定的除外。
当事人迟延履行后发生不可抗力的，不能免除责任
 
 本合同法所称不可抗力，是指不能预见、不能避免并不能克服的客观情况。

 
 
 
 
 
 


