chinglish

1.How to say it in English? == the way to XXX
  标题可以这么说，但是其他情况不行。
  How to不是一个符合语法的问句
  How do you.../how would you... 这样的问句太过个人化。回答是针对个人的。
  What is the good way to...?」就更能够达到 Quora 的这个目的。

R： How should/can/could I say it in English?
    How do you say it in English?


2.Please find below information
  below只是副词，不能修饰information。
  above才可以既当形容词又可以当副词用， please find above information是可以的。

R:  Please find the information below（把below放最后）
    
    Please find below the information（把below放在中间，但是在information前需要 the）

    Below is the information （below倒装）


3.He should responsible for that.

  R:He should be responsible for that.


4.This maybe right

  有很可能的时候用probably,I'm probably wrong.

  R: This might be right.


5.I don't know what's the problem.

  R:I don't know what the problem is
 

6.Peter was arrived at(in) the office early today morning.
  Team were planned to run production on Dec 22. 
  today morning

 R:this morning
   Peter arrived at(in) the office early this morning


 7.If there is any communication related to potential quality issues might impact our PO schedule,
   please copy me on the email
   There is an accident happened in the street. 

 R:If there is any communication related to potential quality issues that mightimpact our PO
   schedule, please copy me on the email

   There is an accident that happened in the street.


8.If plating happened an issue, the product would rust.
  ONLY something happened to XXX

R: If an issue happened to plating , the product would rust.
   If there was an issue in plating , the product would rust.

9.Do you like here?
  here是个副词，怎么可以接在like后面？ 加个it就自然多了

 R:Do you like it here?


10.May I have your name card?
   name card是姓名牌，就是放在胸口的那种或者放在桌子上写着你的名字的。business card才是名片

R:May I have your business card?


11.If you have any question, please find me directly.
   Where are you? I'll come to find you
   find是找到，表示结果，放在这里显然不对，用look for 也不对，是寻找的意思

  R:If you have any question, please come to me directly.
    Where are you? I'll come to see you.


 12.I’ll feedback you tomorrow.
    feedback只能做名词

 R:I’ll give you feedback tomorrow.
   I’ll feed you back tomorrow.


 13.Is Friday OK for you?
    OK for you = good for you 对某人有好处，属于乱套介词。

 R：Is Friday OK with you?


 14.Only if you are happy with the price, it’s a deal.
   only if 表示 "仅....情况下”，比如，"只有水存在的情况下才有生命"，就是only if there is water。

R: As long as you are happy with the price,  it’s a deal.


 15.- Didn't you come to work yesterday?
    - Yes

    英文的回答，和问句中加不加not 没关系。

    - Didn't you come to work yesterday?
    -No (I didn't)


 16.You are impatient/unreasonable
   用being，这样表示某时某刻这个人处于的状态,不表示你把他彻底说死。

R:You are being impatient/unreasonable


 17.This is my picture
 my picture只是代表这个照片是你的，比如你手机里的照片都是你的。a picture of me才是这是我个人的照片
 ，我在照片里。

R： This is a picture of me.


18.Where are you come from?


19.There should have no problem.
 there is  已经表示了“有”（存在）的概念了

 R:There should be no problem.


 20.He only stayed here for two days.
 only必须紧挨着需要修饰的词

 R:He stayed here for only two days



 21.One application form is only allowed to fill in one person’s information.

 R:Only one person’s information is allowed to be filled in an application form


 22.Please pick out the parts that are heavier than the upper limit
   Please pick out the parts whose weights are greater than the upper limit.

  在动词或者名词前（字典上没有没关系，你可以自创），可以简洁表达相应的意思。比如overestimate(高估
  ）, underestimate（低估），misjudge(误判），outperform(比...强）。特别是out前缀，非常好用，


   PLUS:这条信息我看错了
        - I misread your email

        - 他没有告诉我正确的信息，所以我犯错了。
        - I made a mistake because of being misinformed.

        - 这个产品做错了
        - The product was manufactured in a wrong way.(啰嗦）
        - The product was mismanufactured(简洁）

        - 我的衣服已经穿不下了
        - I outgrew my clothes.

        - 这个行业比其他行业成长快
        - This industry outgrew the rest.

        - 十月的销售业绩比九月的要好
        - October's sales performance is better than September（啰嗦）
        - October's sales outperformed September.(简洁)

        - 我奶奶比爷爷活得长5年
        - My grandpa lived 5 years longer than my grandpa（啰嗦）
        - My grandma outlived my grandpa by 5 years(简洁)

        - 我们的产品定价过高
        - Our product was too expensive when pricing(啰嗦）
        - Our product was overpriced.（简洁）

        - 产能过剩 over capacity   产能不足 under capcity
        - 煮过头了  overcooked   没煮熟的   undercooked
        - 水浇多了  overwatered   水浇少了  underwatered
        - 过分解读 overread  反应过度 overreact


         工程狗专用  过热 overheat   加热不够 underheat
                     负荷过大 overload  负荷不够underload
                     烘烤过度（烤焦）overbake   烘烤不够underbake
                     没装满（underfilled）
                     太长 overlength  长度不够 underlength









