PRECISE_SENTENCE_STRU

There are two things wrong with almost all legal writing,one is the style,the other is its content


I.AIM
1) 结合法律和事实
2）起草一份综合全面的，并与口头协议一致的记录
3）定义目前及将来各方当事人之间的权利与义务
4）当事人能够看懂法律文件所表达的意思
5）法律文件必须有可执行性



II.AVOID AMBIGUITY
1）附带条件
in pra:usu use in +new duty/new message
 尽量用独立的句子进行表述：where /if  (not) provided that 

2)PL
define 买方一致行动
else  the purchasers shall jointly notify the vendor...

define 买方可以单独行s动
 else  each purchaser shall notify the vendor... 


3) &&

EG:temporary and part-time employees
   a)两个类别的员工
   b)一个类别的员工既是...也是...

   A and B may notify C
   a) 一致行动时，可以自主决定通知 C
   b)各自可以自主决定通知

   A may sell assets and make captial expenditures
   a) 有权单独就一项自主做出决定
   b)同时做出决定

   A may sell assets and/or make captial expenditures
   有权单独就一项做出决定

4)||

 temporary or part-time employees
a)tem emp, || par emp
b) 兼有tem & par两种性质的 emp
c) par emp,not inclu: b)


5)SHALL
a)接受一项义务 -> replace:must
b) 将来 -> will

6)MAY
a) 允许一方做某事  ->
b) 某事发生的可能性 ->

7)AVOID SHOULD
a) 可能
b) 必须


III.典型表达

1.in accordance with/pursuant to

after friendly consulations conducted in accordance with the principle of equality and mutual benefit,the parties have agreed to
enter into a sales contract in accordance with applicable laws and the provisons of this contract.
各方在平等互利的基础上，经友好协商，一致同意依照相关法律和本合同的规定签订一份销售合同


2.in respect of

the contract price does not cover costs and expenses that are for buyer's account under this contract,or any taxes (including but
not limited to customs duty and value added tax)payable by buyer in respect of this contract.
合同总价不含根据本合同应由买方承担的费用和开销，或买方就本合同应付的税款（包括但不限于关税及增值税）

if the licensee becomes aware that any other person,firm or company alleged that any of the licensed trademarks is invalid,or 
infringes any rights of another party,the licensee shall immediately give the licensor in writing full particulars in respect
thereof and may make no disclosure of information or admission to ant third party in respect thereof.
如果被许可方获悉任何其他人、奇特或公司宣称被许可商标无效或被许可商标侵犯了他方权利，被许可方应立即以书面形式将上述详细情况告知许可方，并不得向任何第三方
披露与此有关的信息或成人（侵权）

where an employee is granted any period of annual leave,the employer shall pay him annual leave pay in respect of that period not
later than the day on which he is next paid his wages after that period.
若员工获准任何时长的年假，则雇主最迟应该于该年假之后首次发放该员工的工资之日知乎该员工的该年假薪酬

for the purpose of the landlord and th tenant ordinance and for the purpose of these presents the rent in respect of the said 
premises shall be deemed to be in arrear if not paid in advance as stipulated by clause 1 hereof.
在租赁条例及本协议中，若上述物业租金未依本协议第1条规定提前予以支付，这将视为拖欠


3.save.../except(for)/unless （otherwise）

notwithstanding any other provisions of this contract,(except for breach of confidentiality obligation or infringement of other
party's IPR),neither party shall be liable to other party for damages for loss of revenues or profits,loss of goodwill or any
indirect or consequential damages in connection with the performance or non-performance of this contract.
无论本合同其他条款有何规定，任何一方均不向另一方承担因本合同的履行或不履行而造成的收入或利润上市、商业信誉丧失或任何间接或附带性损失的赔偿责任（但该方有
违反保密义务或侵犯知识产权情形的除外 ）

unless the terms or context of this contract otherwise provide,this contract shall be interpreted in accordance withe schedule A,
and each of the terms used herein shall have the meaning ascribed to it in schedule A(defintions and interpretation)or schedule B
(speacial terms)as the case may be.
除本合同条款或上下文另有所指外，本合同应根据附录一进行解释，本合同的定义见附录一（定义和解释）或附录二（特别条款），以适用者为准

expect as stipulated in article 255 of this code,where a total losss occurs to the subject matter insured and the full insured amount
is paid,the insurer shall acquire the full right to the subject matter insurred.in the case of under-insurance,the insurer shall 
acquire the right to the subject matter insured in the proportion that the insured amount bears to the insured value.
除本法第二百五十五条的规定之外，保险标的发生全顺，保险人支付全部保险金额的，取得对保险标的的全部权利；但是，在不足额保险的情况下，保险人按照保险金额与
保险价值的比例取得对保险标的的部分权利。


4.notwithstanding...

notwithstanding the foregoing,the parties agree that each party has the right to seek temporary or permanent injunctive of other
similar relief in any court or other authority of competent jurisdiction in respect of any claims of breach of confifentiality or
IPR infrigement or for an order of specific performance or other injunctive relief as permitted under applicable laws.
无论本合同前述条款有何规定，双方同意每一方均有权就任何违反保密义务或知识产权侵权的主张向任何一个有管辖权的法院或其他机关寻求临时或永久禁令或其他类似的救济
措施，或申请实际履行的执行令或其他相关法律允许的禁令救济

notwithstanding clauses(a)and(b) of this article 5.6 above,the assigning party may transfer all or part of its amount of the 
registered capital of the company to an affiliate (the "affiliate assignee")of the assigning party on the following conditions:
尽管有上述5.6条（a）(b)款的规定，转让方可见持有的合营公司注册资本份额全部或部分按照下列条款转让给某某以关联机构（“关联受让方”）

the chairman,following consultation with the vice chairman,shall decide on the timing and locatiion of such interim board meeting,
provided that such interim board meeting shall be held not less than[fifteen(15)] days and not more than [forty-five(45)days 
following delivery of such request.
董事长与副董事长经过协商后，应确定此次临时董事会的时间和地点。但是举行该临时董事会的时间必须在提议提交后十五日到四十五日之间。

provided that if any representation and warranty of a party under article B.1 is not true and correct in all material respects when
made,or if there is a breach of article E,then there shall be no cure period.
但是如果一方在第 B.1 条项下所做的任何陈述和担保在做出时在任何实质方面不真实、不正确，或者违反第 E 条的规定，则没有补救期。





IV.合同常见句式调整


V.合同长句的翻译技巧


VI

VII


VIII




IX


X





in according with/pursuant to

